An important aspect
of keeping
the family’s spiritual health intact
is by making full use
of the Family Worship arrangement.
In this dramatization,
pay attention
to how the family head
is aware of the needs of the family
and how he plans accordingly.
Hi, my name is Joe.
A few weeks ago,
we all sat together for supper.
I was so tired, and my wife,
Jenny, felt the same way.
She always does it all,
taking care of the children so well,
but it was not easy
for her in recent weeks.
Sarah felt that we are too restrictive
on how she dresses.
She just does not understand.
It was hard to convince her.
And to motivate her
to share in the field service
is becoming a challenge.
It was not always like this.
She used to enjoy
going out in field service.
And Tom,
he is such a good boy,
but all of a sudden,
he was raving about the games
his classmates
have on their phones.
It’s always
about having supernatural powers,
and it fascinated him,
even though he is small.
But when I asked him
to take out the garbage,
suddenly
his superpowers left him.
And Mike,
our smallest,
it was hard
to get him to go to bed
or clean up his room.
I realized there are a few things
we need to speak about.
Joe came to me, and we talked
a lot about our children that same evening.
We wondered,
‘What would be the best for them?’
We prayed together.
Then we had an idea!
The following day
we asked our children
if we could consider Noah
as the theme for our next family worship.
All of us liked the idea.
Each one of us
should prepare something.
Mike, Tom, and I
wanted to build the ark.
And, of course,
we need the animals.
And Sarah
should collect pictures
for the story
from our publications.
I also had to take time
to think again about the story of Noah
and how it
can help our family.
Jenny and Sarah were responsible
for the wardrobe and food.
While preparing,
I got the chance
to speak with Sarah about her dress
in a more relaxed setting.
She understood that,
like Noah,
when it comes to Jehovah’s commands,
we need to do “just so.”
Then the evening arrived.
We talked about
how it was before the Flood
and what kind of world
Noah and his family lived in.
Noah’s family needed
real courage to preach.
They had to explain about the rain
and how the ark would be needed
to survive the Flood
—something that had never happened before.
All the people
thought they were crazy!
And while we were talking
about this, it came out
that Sarah felt embarrassed when she met
a schoolmate in the field service recently.
I realized Noah must have felt
the same as me,
and yet,
he was so courageous.
Dad read Genesis 6:9:
“Noah walked with the true God.”
So he could have every confidence
in his Friend, Jehovah.
I want to be just like that!
For Tom,
I found a great picture.
Dad told us that the world
at this time was very bad.
People were fighting
and many were afraid,
and that is why
Jehovah brought the Flood.
It made me think
about the games from my schoolmates.
I like to play those games,
but I know that Jehovah does not like that.
So why do I?
And the best part
was when we got inside the ark!
Then I read Genesis 6:19:
“And bring into the ark
two of every sort
of living creature.”
Dad showed us
how the animals went into the ark.
Each one had its own place,
and they went inside
two at a time without any chaos.
I explained that we also need
to keep our rooms clean like the ark.
I saw that Mike got the point.
We wanted
to keep in mind Genesis 6:22:
“And Noah did according to all
that God had commanded him.
He did just so.”
And then the rain came,
but we survived!
That was great!
We all realized
Noah also must have been
tired sometimes,
but he never gave up.
This was a good lesson for us.
We must take care
of our family as Noah did,
also by having
a regular family worship
like this.
That example really showed
many of the great benefits
of family worship.
In addition to the obvious
—coming together to learn
more about our heavenly Father
—we saw how family worship
gave the daughter
an opportunity
to open up about matters
that had been bothering her.
And thanks to the good work
of the parents,
all of the children
learned something
they could apply
in their daily lives.